# Materials and Methods

Notwithstanding preattentive emotional face perception, the appearance
of a face with a lateralized gaze tempts the human visual system to
shift attention towards the suggested direction; presumably because
relevant environmental and social information is likely to be
discovered where others look at. The abrupt attentional shift is well
within the fast interval range of a saccade movement. This phenomenon
is known as _gaze cuing_, and has been used to measure neural
correlates of visual attention and its interplay with emotion
perception.[@friesen-kingstone-1998]

The present study relied on a variation on the gaze cuing paradigm to
obtain sequences of functional brain images under contrasting
conditions. Each recording session was comprised of 126
stimulus-response cycles, where averted-gaze cycles were interleaved
with control (i.e. direct-gaze) ones in order to study reorientation
of visual attention in conjunction with affective perception. On the
other hand, each of the three sessions tested for the effect of
emotional valence (either positive or negative) against a neutral
expression. This is further explained in figure
\ref{paradigm_state_diagram}: a markovian discrete-state system
diagram showing a repeating $\left<gaze\;cuing,\;contrast\right>$
unit, except that the multitude of specific face photographs have been
abstracted away.


![Gaze cuing paradigm. Nodes represent visual stimuli, their order of
presentation is indicated using arrows. Unless noted otherwise,
transition probability from a node is equally distributed among all
exit arrows. Participants were asked to attend for a target (asterisk)
and respond either "left" or "right" depending on its position
relative to the face. Colorful arrows indicated that such combinations
of emotion followed by a gaze-congruent or gaze-incongruent target
were specific to one of the three
sessions. \label{paradigm_state_diagram}](source/figures/paradigm_state_diagram.pdf){
width=100% }

   - Mention Federica's and previous findings using EEG? that would
     beg for introducing gaze cuing in the #Previous Research section.
   - Block, event, mixed?

- MRI: attach notes from Concha's lectures in order to introduce MRI?

   - sequence used, parameters (from XNAT)
   - image processing pipeline

- statistical analysis, predictive models: regression as a rudimentary
  form of classification

